`testing-sanchonet` network decommission (#2300)
input-output-hk/mithril: docs/website/blog/2025-02-18-testing-sanchonet-decommission.md

---
title: "Decommissioning the `testing‑sanchonet` network"
authors:
  - name: Mithril Team
tags: [cardano, sanchonet, spo, testing, network]
---

> ## Announcing the decommission of the `testing‑sanchonet` network
> 
> The `testing-sanchonet` Mithril network has been introduced a year ago to allow the community to test some experimental features and provide feedback to the Mithril team. In particular, the network has been a valuable tool for the team to test the switch to the **Conway** era.
> 
> **The Mithril team is very grateful for the Mithril pioneer SPOs' participation in testing the network and providing valuable feedback**!
> 
> The Cardano **Sanchonet** network is now being sunset as it has fulfilled its purpose of being an environment to introducing the Cardano community to governance features from **CIP-1694** in a controlled testnet environment.
> 
> In that context, the Mithril team has decided to **decommission the `testing-sanchonet` network**:
> 
> - the aggregator will be terminated by **February 21st, 2025**
> - the network will be removed from the [Mithril explorer](https://mithril.network/explorer/?aggregator=https%3A%2F%2Faggregator.testing-sanchonet.api.mithril.network%2Faggregator)
> - the code of the repository will be cleaned up.
> 
> If you are currently **running a Mithril signer in that network, you can now safely terminate your node** and remove the `testing-sanchonet` network configuration from your setup.
> 
> The list of available Mithril networks is listed on the [Network configurations](https://mithril.network/doc/manual/getting-started/network-configurations) page of the documentation website.
> 
> For any inquiries or assistance, don't hesitate to reach out to the team on the [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/5kaErDKDRq).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Announcing the decommissioning of the `testing‑sanchonet` network

The `testing-sanchonet` Mithril network was introduced a year ago to allow the community to test experimental features and provide feedback to the Mithril team. In particular, it has been a valuable tool for testing the transition to the *Conway* era.

**The Mithril team sincerely appreciates the Mithril pioneer stake pool operators for participating in testing and providing valuable feedback!**

The Cardano SanchoNet network is now being sunset, having served its purpose of introducing governance features from CIP-1694 in a controlled testnet environment.

In this context, the Mithril team has decided to decommission the `testing-sanchonet` network:

- the aggregator will be terminated by **February 21, 2025**
- the network will be removed from the [Mithril explorer](https://mithril.network/explorer/?aggregator=https%3A%2F%2Faggregator.testing-sanchonet.api.mithril.network%2Faggregator)
- the repository code will be cleaned up.

If you are running a **Mithril signer on this network, you can safely terminate your node** and remove the `testing-sanchonet` configuration from your setup.

Available Mithril networks are listed on the [Network configurations](https://mithril.network/doc/manual/getting-started/network-configurations) page of the documentation website.

For any inquiries or assistance, contact the team on the [Discord channel](https://discord.gg/5kaErDKDRq).
```

Author: I've applied the changes, thanks for the review 🙏 .
